README.md, before:

# KANEC IMPACT

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

A blockchain-powered platform for transparent, verified donations to African impact projects using Hedera's distributed ledger technology. Every donation is recorded on-chain, ensuring complete transparency and eliminating corruption in charitable giving.

## 🌟 Overview

KANEC IMPACT revolutionizes charitable giving by leveraging blockchain technology to create an immutable, transparent record of all donations. Built on Hedera's high-performance distributed ledger, the platform enables donors to track their contributions in real-time while ensuring funds reach verified African impact projects without intermediaries.

### Key Highlights
- **100% Transparency**: Every transaction is recorded on Hedera's public ledger
- **Blockchain Verified**: Smart contracts ensure funds go exactly where promised
- **Real-Time Tracking**: Donors can monitor their impact in real-time
- **Secure & Trustless**: No intermediaries, no corruption
- **Instant Settlement**: Hedera's 3-5 second finality ensures fast transactions

## ✨ Features

### 🔐 User Management
- Secure user authentication and authorization
- Hedera wallet creation and management
- Encrypted private key storage
- Email verification and OTP systems

### 💰 Donation System
- Blockchain-powered donations using HBAR
- Real-time transaction verification
- Project escrow accounts
- Donation history and tracking

### 📊 Project Management
- Verified project submissions
- Impact tracking and reporting
- Community engagement features
- Project milestone monitoring

### 🔄 P2P Transfers
- Direct wallet-to-wallet transfers
- Transaction memos and metadata
- Real-time balance updates

### 📈 Analytics & Insights
- Donation analytics and reporting
- Project performance metrics
- AI-powered insights (planned)
- Real-time dashboard

### 🔍 Transaction Tracing
- Complete transaction audit trail
- Mirror node integration for verification
- Transaction history and details

## 🛠 Technology Stack

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with SQLAlchemy ORM
- **Cache**: Redis
- **Task Queue**: Celery
- **Blockchain**: Hedera SDK (hiero-sdk-python)
- **Authentication**: JWT tokens
- **Email**: Brevo (SendGrid) API
- **Validation**: Pydantic

### Frontend
- **Framework**: React 19
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Styling**: CSS Modules + Tailwind CSS
- **Animations**: Framer Motion
- **Icons**: Lucide React
- **Charts**: Recharts
- **HTTP Client**: Axios

### DevOps & Tools
- **Containerization**: Docker & Docker Compose
- **Database Migrations**: Alembic
- **Testing**: pytest
- **Code Quality**: ESLint, Pre-commit hooks
- **API Documentation**: FastAPI auto-generated docs

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before running this application, make sure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.9+**
- **Node.js 18+**
- **PostgreSQL 13+**
- **Redis 6+**
- **Docker & Docker Compose**
- **Hedera Testnet/Mainnet Account** (for blockchain operations)

## 🚀 Installation

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/codenamemomi/KANEC_IMPACT
cd KANEC_IMPACT
```

### 2. Backend Setup

#### Using Docker (Recommended)
```bash
cd KANEC_BACKEND
cp .env.example .env  # Configure your environment variables
docker-compose up -d
```

#### Manual Setup
```bash
cd KANEC_BACKEND

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Run database migrations
alembic upgrade head

# Start the server
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### 3. Frontend Setup
```bash
cd KANEC_FRONTEND

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

### 4. Environment Configuration

Create `.env` files in both backend and frontend directories:

#### Backend (.env)
```env
# Database
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_PORT=5432
DB_USER=your_db_user
DB_PASSWORD=your_db_password
DB_NAME=kanec_db

# Security
SECRET_KEY=your-secret-key-here
PRIVATE_KEY_ENCRYPTION_KEY=your-encryption-key

# Hedera
HEDERA_NETWORK=testnet
HEDERA_OPERATOR_ID=your-hedera-account-id
HEDERA_OPERATOR_KEY=your-hedera-private-key

# Email (Brevo/SendGrid)
BREVO_API_KEY=your-brevo-api-key
MAIL_FROM=your-email@example.com

# Redis
REDIS_HOST=localhost
REDIS_PORT=6379

# Other
VERIFICATION_BASE_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

#### Frontend (.env)
```env
VITE_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8000/kanec
VITE_HEDERA_NETWORK=testnet
```

## 📖 Usage

### Starting the Application

1. **Backend**: The FastAPI server will be available at `http://localhost:8000`
2. **Frontend**: The React app will be available at `http://localhost:5173`
3. **API Documentation**: Visit `http://localhost:8000/docs` for interactive API docs

### Key Workflows

#### User Registration
1. User signs up with email and password
2. Email verification sent via Brevo
3. Hedera wallet automatically created and encrypted
4. User can start donating immediately

#### Project Creation
1. Verified organizations submit projects
2. Projects are reviewed and approved
3. Hedera escrow wallet created for each project
4. Projects become available for donations

#### Making Donations
1. User selects project and donation amount
2. Transaction signed with user's Hedera wallet
3. Funds transferred instantly via Hedera network
4. Transaction verified and recorded in database

## 📚 API Documentation

The API is organized into several modules:

### Authentication (`/api/v1/auth`)
- `POST /register` - User registration
- `POST /login` - User login
- `POST /verify-email` - Email verification
- `POST /forgot-password` - Password reset

### Projects (`/api/v1/projects`)
- `GET /` - List all projects
- `POST /` - Create new project (organizations only)
- `GET /{project_id}` - Get project details
- `PUT /{project_id}` - Update project
- `DELETE /{project_id}` - Delete project

### Donations (`/api/v1/donations`)
- `POST /` - Make a donation
- `GET /` - Get user's donation history
- `GET /{donation_id}` - Get donation details

### Analytics (`/api/v1/analytics`)
- `GET /dashboard` - Dashboard statistics
- `GET /projects/{project_id}` - Project analytics
- `GET /donations/trends` - Donation trends

### Transaction Tracing (`/api/v1/trace`)
- `GET /{transaction_hash}` - Trace transaction details
- `GET /verify/{transaction_hash}` - Verify transaction on Hedera

### P2P Transfers (`/api/v1/p2p`)
- `POST /transfer` - Transfer HBAR between users
- `GET /history` - Transfer history

## 🗄 Database Models

### Core Models
- **User**: User accounts with Hedera wallet integration
- **Organization**: Verified organizations that create projects
- **Project**: Impact projects with escrow wallets
- **Donation**: Donation records with blockchain transaction hashes

### Supporting Models
- **ActivityLog**: User activity tracking
- **Notification**: User notifications
- **EmailTemplate**: Customizable email templates
- **Settings**: Application configuration

## 🔧 Development

### Running Tests
```bash
# Backend tests
cd KANEC_BACKEND
pytest

# Frontend tests
cd KANEC_FRONTEND
npm test
```

### Code Quality
```bash
# Backend linting
cd KANEC_BACKEND
pylint api/
black api/

# Frontend linting
cd KANEC_FRONTEND
npm run lint
```

### Database Migrations
```bash
cd KANEC_BACKEND
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Migration message"
alembic upgrade head
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow PEP 8 for Python code
- Use ESLint configuration for JavaScript/React
- Write tests for new features
- Update documentation as needed
- Ensure all tests pass before submitting PR

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Hedera**: For providing the blockchain infrastructure
- **FastAPI**: For the excellent Python web framework
- **React**: For the powerful frontend library
- **The Open Source Community**: For the amazing tools and libraries

## 📞 Support

For support, email support@kanecimpact.com or join our Discord community.

---

**Built with ❤️ for transparent giving and lasting impact in Africa**

Commit message:

Enhance README with project resources and security notes
Added project resources and test account information.

README.md, after:

# KANEC IMPACT

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

A blockchain-powered platform for transparent, verified donations to African impact projects using Hedera's distributed ledger technology. Every donation is recorded on-chain, ensuring complete transparency and eliminating corruption in charitable giving.

## 🌟 Overview

KANEC IMPACT revolutionizes charitable giving by leveraging blockchain technology to create an immutable, transparent record of all donations. Built on Hedera's high-performance distributed ledger, the platform enables donors to track their contributions in real-time while ensuring funds reach verified African impact projects without intermediaries.

## 📌 Project Resources

Below are supporting materials for this project.
- 📄 **Project Certificate:** [View Certificate](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BaOTQWrMDxIdmZvuKClrffGV2UcMsKR_/view?usp=sharing)  
- 📂 **Project Landing Page:** [Access Here](https://youtu.be/bJ9graMRcKw?si=YYGEnwPcbJCwvmZG)  
- 🧾 **Pitch Deck:** [View Pitch Deck](https://youtu.be/54OkSxsHhEw?si=Stv86T5tFbYsgCOl)
---

## 🔐 Test Account (for judges)

> **Security note:** Sensitive credentials (passwords, private keys, API keys) are never stored in this repository. To request the test account credentials or wallet key, please contact us directly (see contact info below) or follow the secure access instructions provided.

- Test account email: `KANEC_JUDGES_TEST_ACCOUNT_EMAIL`  
- Wallet ID: `KANEC_WALLET_ID`  
- **Important:** The password and private key are not stored here. Request them securely (see below).

---

### Key Highlights
- **100% Transparency**: Every transaction is recorded on Hedera's public ledger
- **Blockchain Verified**: Smart contracts ensure funds go exactly where promised
- **Real-Time Tracking**: Donors can monitor their impact in real-time
- **Secure & Trustless**: No intermediaries, no corruption
- **Instant Settlement**: Hedera's 3-5 second finality ensures fast transactions

## ✨ Features

### 🔐 User Management
- Secure user authentication and authorization
- Hedera wallet creation and management
- Encrypted private key storage
- Email verification and OTP systems

### 💰 Donation System
- Blockchain-powered donations using HBAR
- Real-time transaction verification
- Project escrow accounts
- Donation history and tracking

### 📊 Project Management
- Verified project submissions
- Impact tracking and reporting
- Community engagement features
- Project milestone monitoring

### 🔄 P2P Transfers
- Direct wallet-to-wallet transfers
- Transaction memos and metadata
- Real-time balance updates

### 📈 Analytics & Insights
- Donation analytics and reporting
- Project performance metrics
- AI-powered insights (planned)
- Real-time dashboard

### 🔍 Transaction Tracing
- Complete transaction audit trail
- Mirror node integration for verification
- Transaction history and details

## 🛠 Technology Stack

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with SQLAlchemy ORM
- **Cache**: Redis
- **Task Queue**: Celery
- **Blockchain**: Hedera SDK (hiero-sdk-python)
- **Authentication**: JWT tokens
- **Email**: Brevo (SendGrid) API
- **Validation**: Pydantic

### Frontend
- **Framework**: React 19
- **Build Tool**: Vite
- **Styling**: CSS Modules + Tailwind CSS
- **Animations**: Framer Motion
- **Icons**: Lucide React
- **Charts**: Recharts
- **HTTP Client**: Axios

### DevOps & Tools
- **Containerization**: Docker & Docker Compose
- **Database Migrations**: Alembic
- **Testing**: pytest
- **Code Quality**: ESLint, Pre-commit hooks
- **API Documentation**: FastAPI auto-generated docs

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before running this application, make sure you have the following installed:

- **Python 3.9+**
- **Node.js 18+**
- **PostgreSQL 13+**
- **Redis 6+**
- **Docker & Docker Compose**
- **Hedera Testnet/Mainnet Account** (for blockchain operations)

## 🚀 Installation

### 1. Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/codenamemomi/KANEC_IMPACT
cd KANEC_IMPACT
```

### 2. Backend Setup

#### Using Docker (Recommended)
```bash
cd KANEC_BACKEND
cp .env.example .env  # Configure your environment variables
docker-compose up -d
```

#### Manual Setup
```bash
cd KANEC_BACKEND

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Run database migrations
alembic upgrade head

# Start the server
uvicorn main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### 3. Frontend Setup
```bash
cd KANEC_FRONTEND

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Start development server
npm run dev
```

### 4. Environment Configuration

Create `.env` files in both backend and frontend directories:

#### Backend (.env)
```env
# Database
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_PORT=5432
DB_USER=your_db_user
DB_PASSWORD=your_db_password
DB_NAME=kanec_db

# Security
SECRET_KEY=your-secret-key-here
PRIVATE_KEY_ENCRYPTION_KEY=your-encryption-key

# Hedera
HEDERA_NETWORK=testnet
HEDERA_OPERATOR_ID=your-hedera-account-id
HEDERA_OPERATOR_KEY=your-hedera-private-key

# Email (Brevo/SendGrid)
BREVO_API_KEY=your-brevo-api-key
MAIL_FROM=your-email@example.com

# Redis
REDIS_HOST=localhost
REDIS_PORT=6379

# Other
VERIFICATION_BASE_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

#### Frontend (.env)
```env
VITE_API_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8000/kanec
VITE_HEDERA_NETWORK=testnet
```

## 📖 Usage

### Starting the Application

1. **Backend**: The FastAPI server will be available at `http://localhost:8000`
2. **Frontend**: The React app will be available at `http://localhost:5173`
3. **API Documentation**: Visit `http://localhost:8000/docs` for interactive API docs

### Key Workflows

#### User Registration
1. User signs up with email and password
2. Email verification sent via Brevo
3. Hedera wallet automatically created and encrypted
4. User can start donating immediately

#### Project Creation
1. Verified organizations submit projects
2. Projects are reviewed and approved
3. Hedera escrow wallet created for each project
4. Projects become available for donations

#### Making Donations
1. User selects project and donation amount
2. Transaction signed with user's Hedera wallet
3. Funds transferred instantly via Hedera network
4. Transaction verified and recorded in database

## 📚 API Documentation

The API is organized into several modules:

### Authentication (`/api/v1/auth`)
- `POST /register` - User registration
- `POST /login` - User login
- `POST /verify-email` - Email verification
- `POST /forgot-password` - Password reset

### Projects (`/api/v1/projects`)
- `GET /` - List all projects
- `POST /` - Create new project (organizations only)
- `GET /{project_id}` - Get project details
- `PUT /{project_id}` - Update project
- `DELETE /{project_id}` - Delete project

### Donations (`/api/v1/donations`)
- `POST /` - Make a donation
- `GET /` - Get user's donation history
- `GET /{donation_id}` - Get donation details

### Analytics (`/api/v1/analytics`)
- `GET /dashboard` - Dashboard statistics
- `GET /projects/{project_id}` - Project analytics
- `GET /donations/trends` - Donation trends

### Transaction Tracing (`/api/v1/trace`)
- `GET /{transaction_hash}` - Trace transaction details
- `GET /verify/{transaction_hash}` - Verify transaction on Hedera

### P2P Transfers (`/api/v1/p2p`)
- `POST /transfer` - Transfer HBAR between users
- `GET /history` - Transfer history

## 🗄 Database Models

### Core Models
- **User**: User accounts with Hedera wallet integration
- **Organization**: Verified organizations that create projects
- **Project**: Impact projects with escrow wallets
- **Donation**: Donation records with blockchain transaction hashes

### Supporting Models
- **ActivityLog**: User activity tracking
- **Notification**: User notifications
- **EmailTemplate**: Customizable email templates
- **Settings**: Application configuration

## 🔧 Development

### Running Tests
```bash
# Backend tests
cd KANEC_BACKEND
pytest

# Frontend tests
cd KANEC_FRONTEND
npm test
```

### Code Quality
```bash
# Backend linting
cd KANEC_BACKEND
pylint api/
black api/

# Frontend linting
cd KANEC_FRONTEND
npm run lint
```

### Database Migrations
```bash
cd KANEC_BACKEND
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Migration message"
alembic upgrade head
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow PEP 8 for Python code
- Use ESLint configuration for JavaScript/React
- Write tests for new features
- Update documentation as needed
- Ensure all tests pass before submitting PR

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **Hedera**: For providing the blockchain infrastructure
- **FastAPI**: For the excellent Python web framework
- **React**: For the powerful frontend library
- **The Open Source Community**: For the amazing tools and libraries

## 📞 Support

For support, email support@kanecimpact.com or join our Discord community.

---

**Built with ❤️ for transparent giving and lasting impact in Africa**
